Ingredients.

Beans (for those in the diaspora, Kidney beans work just as well)

Organic Pumpkin leaves

About 1 cup of ground nuts

Rib meat

2 large onions chopped

1medium – large fresh tomato chopped

1 tin of tomato

1 pack of maize meal or mealie meal

1 pack of cassava meal (optional)

Salt


Method

Soak the beans overnight, the night before cooking.

In a pot boil beans for 1 hour.  In a separate pan, fry onion and ½ a tin of tomato with a pinch of salt.  Once the beans have softened and nearly all the water is gone; add the onion and tomato, allow to simmer and thicken.

Clean the pumpkin leaves by flicking them to remove any dust. Then hold the stem in one hand and strip the outer fibres down to the leaves. Wash and chop the leaves into small pieces ready for cooking.  Boil water separately and add a pinch or two of salt; add leaves to the water, cover the pot and leave to cook until they have wilted.

Whilst leaves cook, pound ground nuts to a powdery consistency and sieve.  Now that the leaves have reduced to half, add pounded ground nuts, onions and fresh tomato, mix well.  Cover the pot slightly and cook for 1 hour.  You will know the ground nuts are cooked, because they will change from a white powdery colour to a brown colour.  Don’t let all the water evaporate, this veg should not be too dry.

When cooking rib meat of a cow, you do not need to add oil because it already has quite a bit of fat on it. Simply fill a pot with water, until the meat is fully submerged and boil. Once water evaporates, fry the meat add a bit of salt, pepper, onion and ½ a tin of tomato.  Add a bit of water to make the stew and leave to simmer and thicken, adding water accordingly.

Finally cook your nshima.  Put the stove on high heat, in a large pot add a cup of maize meal/mealie meal to two cups of cold water to make porridge.  Now add a lot of boiling water to fill the pot about ½ – ¾ full.  Reduce the heat to medium, cover the pot and leave to cook for 3-5 minutes.  Now using a flat wooden spoon stir vigorously to make it smooth; gradually add a tbsp at a time of maize meal/mealie meal to thicken the nshima, always making sure you stir continuously and vigorously, to remove lumps, (this is quite a workout especially if cooking for a large number of people).  To make sure that the maize meal is cooked, cook for about 20 minutes. Finally add cassava meal and mix vigorously once more, until thick enough to eat with your hands and there is no water remaining.  It should be about the consistency of soft Play-Doh but stickier.  Cover the pot and leave to stand for a few minutes.